you
hey what's up you guys Marty Schwartz
here guitar jams calm real happy to
bring you another lesson this time we
need to keep on the third fret and it's
a classic classic sounding finger
picking progression for you I have a
free ebook free video lessons that are
not on YouTube you can click the link
down there put your info in there and
I'll send you really cool guitar
learning stuff I really appreciate it
but regardless of that I'm going to
teach you this little technique right
now here we go got the guitar and
standard tuning I'm going to put the
capo on the 3rd fret and then we've got
two basic shapes that are almost
identical a little trick and the first
one's going to be like this we're going
to imagine that the capo is zero then
we've got 1 2 3 4 4th 4th the fret up
index finger on the B string then we're
going to do pinky on a whole step up and
ring finger on a whole step up
so that's all we need a six six four and
then the open high E right there
then the same thing a whole step down
but I bar my index finger across the
high e is what like this and you're
going to need to be able to get your
middle finger down onto that B string a
half step higher than your index and off
but that's that those are the two shapes
so check it out
that pull step down but Bard
and then we do a little picking pattern
I'm going to break that down for you
I'm only going to use my thumb index and
middle finger we're going to go like
this first thing we're going to do is
middle finger on the B string that's
that first chord I showed you
then D G so watch
you
that open hiyee
I mean the Capo's on the third fret but
the open high E is next so I do that
shape B D G ie
now we're going to reverse the D and g
strings and go G D so watch
you
you catch that
good thing to practice right there
and then there's two more notes and then
the sequel sequence repeats
so we learned so far now we're going to
add the high e again and the G
and then the whole thing starts over
check it out nothing has happened with
my left hand
if you look at the sequence only the
first note of that sequence is on the B
string all the rest your middle fingers
go into that high except for the very
first note of the sequence
see that only one time did I hit that
b-string look again
you
boom immediately go whole step down and
I'm barring that but the pattern starts
the same way B D G
you
so if you add that
followed by the high e which is the same
as well
four more notes that are a different
pattern and then you've got the whole
sequence so start from the beginning
here B D G E G de G down a whole step B
D G E
I'm going to put our middle finger down
off the one two three up from the capo
we're still playing that shape though
with a little bar and we're going to go
like this
biji
hi EEG
so when you play that whole sequence it
looks like this
see that so when that middle fingers
down its bgg put them all together real
slow
you
all right thanks a lot
hope you dug the lesson I appreciate all
your support got extra stuff down there
we'll see in another lesson rural suit
all right see you later